.\"                              hey, Emacs:   -*- nroff -*-
.\" tilp is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
.\" the Free Software Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH TILP 1 "March 3, 2003"
.SH NAME
TiLP - a communication program for TI calculators ('Ti Linking Program' or 'Tilp is a Linking Program')
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBtilp\fP [--help] [--version] [-h] [-v] [-calc=] [-link=] [-adr_port=] [-dev_port=] [-timeout=] [-delay=] [-cmdline] [-gui=] [filename]  
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBTiLP\fP program allows you to backup, restore and archive variables of your Texas Intruments calculator on your computer. It has also additional features such as screen dump, remote control, ROM dump, FLASHing. TiLP is a very complete program. Moreover, you have the same program for all calculator types.
.SH OPTIONS
The command line of tilp can be used for sending or opening files (variables, backup, FLASH apps, OS, ...). For sending one or more file, simply pass the filename(s) on the command line with the \fB-cmdline\fP option. If you don't use the \fB-cmdline\fP option, the file will be open within the GUI by the Group File Manager.

It is possible to send one or more files (single/group file only) or one file which can be a single/group var as well as a backup, a FLASH app or an Operating System even. You can not do any other operations. If you want more operations, you can use the interactive mode (\fB-gui=console\fP).

Note: options must be passed before the filename !

\fBtilp\fP accepts the following options:
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fP
Display a list of all command line options.
.TP
\fB-v, --version\fP
Output the version info.
.TP
\fB-cmdline\fP
Send file(s) without launching any Graphic User Interface. Informations are displayed in the terminal.
.TP
\fB-gui=\fP
Use a specific graphic interface. You can choose 'console' (prompt), or 'gtk' (GTK+).
In console mode, you can enter some commands. There are several commands which allow you to do the same things that you could do in GUI mode. These commands are: ready, screen [filename], dirlist [filename], backup [filename], restore [filename], send [filename] (variable, FLASHapp, OS), receive [filename] and dump [filename] (ROM).
.TP
\fB-calc=\fP
Select a calculator type: v200, ti92+, ti92, ti89, ti86, ti85, ti83+, ti83, ti82 or ti73.
.TP
\fB-link=\fP
Select a link cable type: Grey TIGraphLink (tgl), home-made serial or Black TIGraphLink (ser), home-made parallel link (par), fastAVRlink (avr), generic virtual link (vtl), TIEmulator virtual link (tie), VTi virtual link (vti), TI/PC USB link (tpu) or USB TIGraphLink also known as SilverLink (slv).
.TP
\fB-adr_port=\fP
This value can represent either a direct address, either a link number, according to the link type. It will override the address associated with the port specified in the config file.
Give the direct address of the parallel port (0x3BC, 0x378 or 0x278) or serial
port (0x3F8, 0x2F8, 0x3E8 or 0x2E8), depending of the link cable type.
Give the link number of the virtual link (1 -> #0, 2 -> #1).
Give the link mode of the TI/PC USB link (1 -> 'raw' mode, 2 -> 'cooked' mode).
.TP
\fB-dev_port=\fP
It will override the device associated with the port specified in the config file.
Give the serial port device (/dev/ttyS[0..3]) for the Grey TIGraphLink or the fastAVRlink.
Give the USB device (/dev/tiglusb[0..3]).
.TP
\fB-timeout=\fP
in tenth of seconds (0.1 s). This is the time while the program wait a response of the 
calculator. Once this delay elapsed, the program send a time out error. The 
default value is 1 seconds.
.TP
\fB-delay=\fP
in microseconds. This is the time which separate the transmission of 2 bytes.
The default value is 5 microseconds. Decrease this value increase the 
transfer speed but decrease the reliability of the transmission.
.SH SEE ALSO
tilp-reg(1)
.SH CONFIG FILE FORMAT
This section describes the format of the .tilp config file which is in the home directory of the user (Linux) or the tilp.ini file (Win32). The file is separated into several sections (hardware, gui, calc, external programs, fonts, screen, misc). But, there is no order, you can write lines as you want.
A line preceded by the '#' symbol is a comment. Each line has the following format: option=something.
The config file must have the 'RC_END' string at end.
Every line can be put in any order. Beware: any comment added to the file will be overwritten !
Below is described each option and the possible values:

\fBversion=\fP
Which version of TiLP has written the config file. Used to display the Release the file and to keep compatibility.

\fBcalctype=\fP
Defines the calculator type. Choose one of the following value: ti82, ti83, ti83+, ti85, ti86, ti89, ti92, ti92+, v200.

\fBlinktype=\fP
Define the link cable type. Choose one of the following value: TIGraphLink, parallel, serial, AVRlink, fastAVRlink, virtual, TiEmulator, VTi, UsbGraphLink, TiPcUsbLink.

\fBport=\fP
Define the port to use. You have to choose one of the following value depending on your link cable type and the port you want use: parallel port #[1-3], serial port #[1-4], virtual port #[1-2], USB port #[1-4].

\fBmethod=\fP
You can specify here an I/O management method to use. You can choose: automatic, asm, api and driver. Non-expert users should choose automatic. The libticables library will automatically determine the best method.

\fBadr_port=\fP
If you specify a value, this will override the default settings associated with the port value.
Define the I/O address of the I/O port to use. It can be 0x3F8 for a serial port or 0x378 for a parallel port for instance.

\fBserial_device=\fP
If you specify a value, this will override the default settings associated with the port value.
Define the device name to use.

\fBbaudrate=\fP
If you have a fastAVRlink cable, you may have to pass the link cable speed. This value must be the same than the cable one.

\fBtimeout=\fP
with the timeout value to use in tenth of seconds. Default value: 20.

\fBdelay=\fP
with the delay value to use in micro-seconds for home-made cables. Default value: 10

\fBrts_cts=\fP
Enable (on) or disable (off) the hardware flow control (RTS/CTS method) for the fastAVRlink cable. Disable it can decrease the reliability of transfers unless you decrease the link speed. Above 9600 bauds, flow control is recommended.


\fBxsize=\fP and \fBysize=\fP
Gives the X and Y values of the size of the left window. Default values: 300 and 400.

\fBclist_sort=\fP
Define the sorting method for the right window. Choose one of the following value: name, date, size, user, group, attrib

\fBclist_order=\fP
Define the sorting order for the right window. Choose either 'up' or 'down'.

\fBctree_sort=\fP
Define the sorting method for the left window. Choose one of the following value: name, info, type, size

\fBctree_order=\fP
Define the sorting order for the left window. Choose either 'up' or 'down'.

\fBfile_display=\fP
Define whether tilp shows only TI files or all files. Possible values are 'ti' or 'all'.

\fBconfirm=\fP
Define whether tilp ask you confirmation when you delete some files. Use carefully !!! You can choose 'yes' or 'no'

\fBconsole=\fP
Define whether tilp will display some verbose informations or not. Under Win32, this will display a background console. Values: 'yes' or 'no'.

\fBshow_gui=\fP
Display the Graphic User Interface in command line mode. Values: 'yes' or 'no'.

\fBsingle_or_group=\fP
Receive set of files as a single file or as a grouped file. Values: 'single' or 'group'.

\fBuse_checksum=\fP
Unimplemented yet.

\fBpath=\fP
Define whether tilp sends the variable in its original folder or in the locurrent folder. Choose either 'full' or 'local'. Works only for TI89/92/92+.

\fBprobe_ti=\fP
Define whether tilp will try and determine the calculator automagically. Works only for TI73, TI83+, TI89 and TI92+ calculators. Values: 'yes' or 'no'.

\fBunzip_location=\fP
Define the location of the program to use for unzipping archives. Most of the time, the 'unzip' string is enough.

\fBunzip_options=\fP
Define the options to pass on the command line of the 'unzip' program. By default, all files of the ZIP archive are deflated in a directory such as 'archive_name/'. An option such as 'unzip_filter=*.89* -d tidir/' can be useful too.

\fBtar_location=\fP
Define the location of the program for untarring archives. Most of the time, the 'tar' string is enough. 

\fBtar_options=\fP
Define the options to pass on the command line of the 'tar' program. By default, this option is equal to 'tar_options=xvzf'.

\fBweb_location=\fP
Define the location of the browser. Mozilla is used by default: /usr/bin/mozilla.

\fBweb_options=\fP
Define the options to pass on the command line of the 'browser' program. By default, there is no option.

\fBleft_font_name=\fP
Define the font to use in the left window (calc files). The font is described by its XFLD (X-Font Logical Description) name.

\fBright_font_name=\fP
Define the font to use in the right window (computer files). The font is described by its XFLD name, such as: 
-adobe-courier-medium-r-*-*-*-125-*-*-*-*-*-*

\fBscreen_mode=\fP
Define whether tilp display the entire screen of the calculator or only the visible part. This option is only useful for TI89 calculators because they have a screen which has the same size than a TI92 one but only a part is displayed. The other part is only useable via ASM programming.

\fBscreen_format=\fP
Define the image format to use for saving screen captures. It can be 'jpg' or 'png'. Previous format such as 'xpm', 'pcx' or 'bmp' are not supported any longer.

\fBscreen_blurry=\fP
Define whether the image is saved in B&W or saved like a VTi image (dark & light gray). Values: 'yes' or 'no'.

\fBlocale=\fP
Override the default locale ("C" most of the time). Must be a string such as 'fr_FR' or 'en _US' for instance.

\fBworking_dir=\fP
Contains the directory that TiLP will list at startup. Can be changed from the popup menu.

Think to terminate your config script with the 'RC_END' word !!!

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1999-2003, Romain Lievin. 
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.

This program and its source code is distributed under the terms of the 
terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

.SH SUGGESTIONS AND BUG REPORTS
The  canonical place to find tilp and some miscellenaous informations is at 
http://www.tilp.info (redirected on http://lpg.ticalc.org/prj_tilp/index.php)
You can also look at http://lpg.ticalc.org and http://www.ticalc.org for others TI related programs for Linux. French people can also look at http://www.ti-fr.org.
.SH AUTHOR
Original author (Linux & Win32): Romain Lievin.

Mac OS-X port by Julien Blache.

FreeBSD port by Tijl Coosemans.
.SH THANKS
Thanks to these persons to have lent me their calculator: Jean-Pierre and Thomas (TI92+), Benoit, Philippe and Florence (TI89), Louis (TI86), Luc (TI85), Nicolas (TI83), Jean-Philippe and Francois (TI82).
Special thanks to Guillaume for her Grey/Gray TIGL link cable.
Thanks to many others (patches, suggestions, ...)