.\"                              hey, Emacs:   -*- nroff -*-
.\" gfm is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
.\" the Free Software Foundation, 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor,
.\" Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
.\"

.TH gfm 1 "July 24, 2012"

.SH NAME
gfm - a program to manipulate files for TI's handhelds

.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBgfm\fP [\-h / \-\-help] [\-v / \-\-version] filename

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBgfm\fP program allows you to group/ungroup files as well as add/remove/rename entries.

.SH OPTIONS
The command line of gfm can be used for loading files.

\fBgfm\fP accepts the following options:

.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP
Display a list of all command line options.

.TP
\fB\-v, \-\-version\fP
Output the version info.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2006-2007, Tyler Cassidy & Romain Lievin. 
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.

This program and its source code is distributed under the terms of the 
terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

.SH SUGGESTIONS AND BUG REPORTS
The canonical place to find gfm and some miscelleanous informations is at http://lpg.ticalc.org/prj_gfm/index.htm .
You can also look at http://lpg.ticalc.org and http://www.ticalc.org for others TI related programs for Linux.

.SH AUTHOR
Original author (Linux & Win32): Romain Lievin & Tyler Cassidy.

.SH SEE ALSO
tilp(1)
