.\"                              hey, Emacs:   -*- nroff -*-
.\" tilp is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
.\" the Free Software Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH TILP 1 "July 26, 2005"
.SH NAME
TiLP - a communication program for TI calculators ('Ti Linking Program' or 'Tilp is a Linking Program')
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBtilp-2\fP [--help] [--version] [-h] [-v] [--calc=] [--cable=] [--port= ] [--timeout=] [--delay=] [--no-gui] [filename]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBTiLP\fP program allows you to backup, restore and archive variables of your Texas Intruments calculator on your computer. It has also additional features such as screen dump, remote control, ROM dump, FLASHing. TiLP is a very complete program. Moreover, you have the same program for all calculator types.
.SH OPTIONS
The command line of tilp can be used for sending or opening files (variables, backup, FLASH apps, OS, ...). For sending one or more file, simply pass the filename(s) on the command line with the \fB-cmdline\fP option. If you don't use the \fB-cmdline\fP option, the file will be open within the GUI by the Group File Manager.

It is possible to send one or more files (single/group file only) or one file which can be a single/group var as well as a backup, a FLASH app or an Operating System even. You can not do any other operations. If you want more operations, you can use the interactive mode (\fB-gui=console\fP).
Example: tilp --cable=BlackLink --port=1 --calc=ti92+ romdump.9xz

Note: options must be passed before the filename !

\fBtilp\fP accepts the following options:
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fP
Display a list of all command line options.
.TP
\fB-v, --version\fP
Output the version info.
.TP
\fB--no-gui\fP
Send file(s) without launching any Graphic User Interface. Informations are displayed in the console.
.TP
\fB--calc=\fP
Select a calculator type: v200, ti92+, ti92, ti89t, ti89, ti86, ti85, ti84+, ti83+, ti83, ti82 or ti73.
.TP
\fB--cable=\fP
Select a link cable type: GrayLink, BlackLink, SilverLink, Parallel, VTi, TiEmu.
.TP
\fB--port=\fP
Specify on which port the link cable is plugged on. Can be null, 1, 2, 3 or 4.
.TP
\fB--timeout=\fP
in tenth of seconds (0.1 s). This is the time while the program wait a response of the 
calculator. Once this delay elapsed, the program send a time out error. The 
default value is 1 seconds.
.TP
\fB--delay=\fP
in microseconds. This is the time which separate the transmission of 2 bytes.
The default value is 5 microseconds. Decrease this value increase the 
transfer speed but decrease the reliability of the transmission.
.SH EXAMPLE
Quicly send (no gui) an TI89 file with a BlackLink cable on the second serial port (/dev/ttyS1 or COM2); timeout is set to 2s:
.TP
tilp --calc=ti89 --cable=serial --port=2 --timeout=20 --no-gui group.89g
.SH CONFIG FILE FORMAT
This section describes the format of the .tilp config file which is in the home directory of the user (Linux) or the tilp.ini file (Win32). The file is separated into several sections (hardware, gui, calc, external programs, fonts, screen, misc). But, there is no order, you can write lines as you want.
A line preceded by the '#' symbol is a comment. Each line has the following format: option=something.
Every line can be put in any order. Beware: any comment added to the file will be overwritten !
Below is described each option and the possible values:

\fBversion=\fP
Which version of TiLP has written the config file. Used to display the Release the file and to keep compatibility.

\fBcalc_model=\fP
Defines the calculator type. Choose one of the following value: ti82, ti83, ti83+, ti85, ti86, ti89, ti92, ti92+, v200.

\fBcable_model=\fP
Define the link cable type. Choose one of the following value: TIGraphLink, parallel, serial, AVRlink, fastAVRlink, virtual, TiEmulator, VTi, UsbGraphLink, TiPcUsbLink.

\fBcable_port=\fP
Define the port to use. You have to choose one of the following value depending on your link cable type and the port you want use: parallel port #[1-3], serial port #[1-4], virtual port #[1-2], USB port #[1-4].

\fBcable_timeout=\fP
with the timeout value to use in tenth of seconds. Default value: 20.

\fBcable_delay=\fP
with the delay value to use in micro-seconds for home-made cables. Default value: 10

\fBxsize=\fP and \fBysize=\fP
Gives the X and Y values of the size of the left window. Default values: 300 and 400.

\fBlocal_sort=\fP
Define the sorting method for the right window. Choose one of the following value: name, date, size, user, group, attrib

\fBlocal_sort_order=\fP
Define the sorting order for the right window. Choose either 'up' or 'down'.

\fBremote_sort=\fP
Define the sorting method for the left window. Choose one of the following value: name, info, type, size

\fBremote_sort_order=\fP
Define the sorting order for the left window. Choose either 'up' or 'down'.

\fBfile_display=\fP
Define whether tilp shows only TI files or all files. Possible values are 'ti' or 'all'.

\fBfs_type=\fP
File selector type (gtk1, gtk2, win32, qt).

\fBfull_gui=\fP
Display the local frame.

\fBlocal_path=\fP
Use full path when sending variables

\fBshow_all=\fP
Show all files and not only TI files.

\fBoverwrite=\fP
Define whether tilp ask you confirmation when you delete some files. Use carefully !!! You can choose 'yes' or 'no'

\fBrecv_as_group=\fP
Receive set of files as a grouped file.

\fBconsole=\fP
Define whether tilp will display some verbose informations or not. Under Win32, this will display a background console. Values: 'yes' or 'no'.

\fBshow_gui=\fP
Display the Graphic User Interface in command line mode. Values: 'yes' or 'no'.

\fBsingle_or_group=\fP
Receive set of files as a single file or as a grouped file. Values: 'single' or 'group'.

\fBworking_dir=\fP
Contains the directory that TiLP will list at startup. Can be changed from the popup menu.

\fBremote_font_name=\fP
Define the font to use in the left window (calc files). The font is described by its XFLD (X-Font Logical Description) name.

\fBlocal_font_name=\fP
Define the font to use in the right window (computer files). The font is described by its XFLD name, such as: 
-adobe-courier-medium-r-*-*-*-125-*-*-*-*-*-*

\fBscreen_format=\fP
Define the image format to use for saving screen captures. It can be 'jpg' or 'png'. Previous format such as 'xpm', 'pcx' or 'bmp' are not supported any longer.

\fBscreen_scaling=\fP
???

\fBscreen_clipping=\fP
Define whether tilp display the entire screen of the calculator or only the visible part. This option is only useful for TI89 calculators because they have a screen which has the same size than a TI92 one but only a part is displayed. The other part is only useable via ASM programming.

\fBscreen_blurry=\fP
Define whether the image is saved in B&W or saved like a VTi image (dark & light gray). Values: 'yes' or 'no'.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1999-2005, Romain Lievin. 
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.

This program and its source code is distributed under the terms of the 
terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

.SH SUGGESTIONS AND BUG REPORTS
The  canonical place to find tilp and some miscellenaous informations is at 
http://www.tilp.info (redirected on http://lpg.ticalc.org/prj_tilp/index.php)
You can also look at http://lpg.ticalc.org and http://www.ticalc.org for others TI related programs for Linux. French people can also look at http://www.ti-fr.org.
.SH AUTHOR
Original author (Linux & Win32): Romain Lievin.

Mac OS-X port by Julien Blache.

FreeBSD port by Tijl Coosemans.
.SH THANKS
Thanks to these persons to have lent me their calculator: Jean-Pierre and Thomas (TI92+), Benoit, Philippe and Florence (TI89), Louis (TI86), Luc (TI85), Nicolas (TI83), Jean-Philippe and Francois (TI82).
Special thanks to Guillaume for her Grey/Gray TIGL link cable.
Thanks to many others (patches, suggestions, ...)
.SH SEE ALSO
tilp-reg(1)
